= Kublog

Kublog is a simple yet complete way to have a Product Blog that integrates with your apps user base. It includes social sharing, atom feeds and moderated comments. 

Built for Rails 3.1, Kublog is a complete stack, fully configurable solution. 

Currently live for Rutanet[http://rutanet.com] on http://rutanet.com/blog and other products at Innku[http://innku.com].

== Features

* Publish posts with the most basic and simple wysiwyg
* Attach multiple images to your content
* Share your posts on your Product's Twitter Page and Facebook Fan Page
* E-mail personalized versions of your posts to all your users
* Optional background processing with Delayed Job
* Moderated comments from apps users, apps admins, and visitors
* Atom feed for main blog and individual post categories

== Kublog Basic Usage

Kublog is a mountable Engine that assumes you use the following tools for development:

* Rails 3.1
* ActiveRecord

In your Gemfile

  gem 'kublog', '0.9.0'

Generate migrations and all the code you'll likely want to customize.

  rails generate kublog:install

Run the migrations

  rake db:migrate

Mount the engine on your routes

  mount Kublog::Engine => "/blog(.:format)"

Include the author module under the model that will have access to create posts on the blog:

  class User < ActiveRecord::Base
    include Kublog::Author
  end

Configure your blog's basic information on **initializers/kublog.rb**

  Kublog.setup do |config|
    config.blog_name = 'Example blog'
    config.blog_description = 'Best blog ever'
    config.default_url_options = {:host => 'www.exampleblog.com'}
  end
  
Kublog uses I18n, the install generator will create the file **locales/kublog/en.yml**, make sure to add its content to your own en.yml file or add the following line on your **application.rb** also include the folders under locales:

    config.i18n.load_path += Dir[File.join(Rails.root, 'config', 'locales', '**', '*.{rb,yml}')]

To get the most of Kublog you'll want to **Integrate your Users**, **Add E-mail Notifications** and **Configure your Social Networks**.

== Integrate your Users

The install generator will create the file **controllers/kublog/application_controller**.

On this file you will see the definitions of two empty methods **current_user** and **is_admin?**. Since Kublog is an isolated mountable Engine, you **will** need to define this methods, even if you have them on your apps application_controller. 

After you finish, it might will look something like this:

    def current_user
      @current_user ||= User.find(session[:user_id])
    end
    
    def is_admin?
      @current_user.admin?
    end

It's **important** to know that if you're using Devise, you won't need a current_user method. If the model you're using is named something other than user, you can call the controller access method inside of **current_user**.

=== Author#to_s

I recommend you define a to_s method for your Author such as:

    def to_s
      "#{self.name} #{self.last_name}"
    end

== Add E-mail Notifications

To add E-mail notifications, include the **Kublog::Notifiable** module into the user class that will be notified.

    class User < ActiveRecord::Base
      include Kublog::Notifiable
    end

The E-mail from which they will receive the notification is configured in your **kublog.rb** initializer:

    config.author_email "Kublog Test <test@kublog.com>"
    
You may also configure a block to specify that the user receives the notification from the author's E-mail:

    config.author_email do |post|
      post.user.email
    end
=== Configure your social Networks

Configuring **Twitter** is pretty easy, you might want to create a twitter app on https://dev.twitter.com/

You will need to feed Kublog:

* Consumer Key
* Consumer Secret
* Oauth Token
* Oauth Secret

=== Sample twitter configuration on initializers/kublog.rb

    config.twitter do |twitter|
      twitter.consumer_key = 'your-consumer-key'
      twitter.consumer_secret = 'your-consumer-secret'
      twitter.oauth_token = 'your-oauth-token'
      twitter.oauth_token_secret = 'your-consumer-secret'
    end

Configuring **Facebook** Fan page posts is a little trickier, you will only need the access token for your Fan Page. 

Find out how to get it here: https://github.com/innku/authorizefb

=== Sample Facebook configuration on initializers/kublog.rb

    config.facebook_page_token = 'your-page-token'

== What's coming   

* Drafts
* Captcha for unsigned user notifications
* Pagination

If you wish to work on this. Fork it and pull request, please =) 
    
== Check out the code

Kublog is made to be as simple as possible so you can modify fork it, modify it and reuse it. Please do.